---
layout: post
published: false
mathjax: false
featured: false
comments: false
title: Terraform 101
categories:
  - devops
---
## What is terraform?

Terraform is a tool for defining infrastructure as code. It supports almost all cloud providers and even can be used to provision some other technologies like Docker and Kubernetes.

Which means that instead of using your cloud provider console to create resources, you can define as code and track changes.

Infrastructure is any cloud resource that can be created by using an API. Examples are:

* Virtual machines (ex. EC2, DigitalOcean Droplets, etc.)
* Buckets (ex. S3, Google Cloud Storage, etc)
* Permissions (ex. IAM)

AWS has a equivalent tool called CloudFormation, but there are many differences between them, described later in this article.

## What problems does terraform solves?
Having infrastructure-as-code (IaC) allows us to adopt a software development lifecycle for infrastructure.

### Lack of visibility on infrastructure changes
By enforcing IaC, all changes need to go through an approval process, allowing other team members criticize and learn about what changes are being made.

### Standardization of infrastructure
Why define the same template multiple times when you can re-use definitions for infrastructure that are similar, keeping it consistent and reducing duplication.

### Lack of speed to market and more prone to mistakes
Using the cloud console to create resources might look easy, but for complex stacks it can be a long step-by-step process and doing manually can be very prone to mistakes. With IaC, code can be defined and deployed any number of times.